As of release 3.0, SU2 supports Windows platforms from Windows XP to Windows 8 in 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. Please note that the executables have been built to support any version of Windows but have only been extensively tested in Windows 7 x64 platform. The 32-bit versions are available for legacy support but are limited to smaller problems due to the 2 GB memory limit in 32-bit systems; a 64-bit architecture is recommended. Windows binaries are packaged as an installer (.exe) and were built and optimized with Intel® C++ Composer XE 2013, Update 2. If you encounter a problem installing or running in Windows please contact the support team for assistance. 

The Windows builds include METIS 5.1.0 (a grid partitioning tool), CGNS 3.1.4 (an open-source standard CFD file format), Tecplot® bindings (a commercial post-processing tool), and (in parallel versions), Microsoft® MPI (via the Microsoft® HPC Pack, version 2012). Both METIS and CGNS are built into the executables and these tools do not need to be downloaded or installed by users. To run the parallel versions, the Microsoft® HPC Pack, 2012 must be installed and configured as described below prior to running any SU2 executables. It is distributed freely by Microsoft here. Before posting questions regarding parallel issues on Windows platform, please compile and run one of the MPI test programs to confirm your MPI installation is configured properly. 

## Installation 

1. **Download and run the appropriate installer package**. Choose the installer that corresponds to your architecture (x64 or x86).  You must have administrator privileges to install. Run the installer and follow the installation wizard which will guide you through the options. The setup wizard will guide you through the setup options available. 

2. **Add SU2 environment variables**. This is done through the Environment Variables control panel.  You can access these by typing "environ" in the search/run box of the start menu.  Start a New System variable.  Assign the Variable Name "SU2_RUN", and assign the Variable Value to be the path to your SU2 Executables (the folder that contains SU2_CFD.exe for example).  If you used the default values from the installer, this could be "C:\Program Files\Stanford ADL\SU2\bin".  Note: x64 systems might use "Program Files (x86)" 

3. **Only required for the parallel versions of SU2: Install Microsoft® HPC Pack, 2012 (Microsoft® MPI)**. Download, install, and configure Microsoft® HPC Pack, version 2012 by following the included instructions. It is strongly recommended that users test Microsoft® MPI installations via the provided examples before running SU2 parallel programs. 

## Running SU2 in Windows

Running SU2 in Windows is identical to running in Linux of Mac OS environments with the exception of parallel execution which varies in syntax. Microsoft® MPI has different behavior than traditional MPI on the Linux and Mac platforms; please refer to Microsoft's support documentation (e.g. this short tutorial) to familiarize yourself with its behavior and syntax. (Note that Microsoft® MPI support also allows SU2 to be run on Microsoft's Azure cloud service.) Please refer to the Tutorials and Running SU2 sections for specific syntax on running the various components of SU2.